buy: How canon m50 mark 2 is better than canon 200d II...Can someone explain why I should buy m50 mark 2 and not 200d II?? Pricing in flipkart seems to be almost similar
sell:Difference is DSLR vs mirrorless. You can find difference videos on YouTube. Few things I noticed in M50 mark II is light weight, helps in stability. Focusing is fast. More fps for high speed shoot.
buy:Is this camera waterproof
sell:No
buy:Can I use others lens and video recording duration?
sell:Yes , You can use other lens.
buy:Can we use DSLR 50mm lens to mirror less?
sell:U will need adpter
buy:Is it touch screen display
sell:Yes
buy:Which is more better canon eos m50 mark ii Or nikon 5600d
sell:canon EOS M50 mark II is very much better than nikon D5600
buy:Can we shoot video in this camera
sell:Yes
buy:To this camera lens will give
sell:15 45
buy:Can i use 24-105 & 70-200 lens this camera..?
sell:You mean Canon right? You gotta use an EF to EFM attachment for it.
buy:Will u give both shoart and long lenses
sell:With cannon m50 only one lense m15-45mm available
buy:Is it better for making short films with very good quality???
sell:It's good quality camera go for it I have used it
buy:What is the maximum storage capacity in this camera?
sell:No storage you have to buy extra storage.
buy:This camera shot 4k 60fps
sell:No
buy:Can I use RF lenses??
sell:yes
buy:Which is better fuji t200 or m50 Mark ii?
sell:m50 Mark ii is much more better option,go for it.
buy:Is 16GB free memory card comes with camera?
sell:No it does not include
buy:Does it shoot raw photos?
sell:Yes, it can, you need to set it in the camera settings.
buy:Is camera bag included with this?
sell:no
buy:Can we use separte lense for this camera ? How much cost is approx? It is water resistant? ( during rain can we use it)
sell:Yes.
buy:This Cemara is support by 4 k video
sell:Yes its support
buy:This is 4 k video
sell:Yes
buy:What about battery life when shooting video?
sell:very low	
buy:Which memory card is work this camera
sell:64 gb
buy:Can i use other lenses in this! Like 200d or 1500d?
sell:you will need adaptor.
buy:In this camera slo_mo is there
sell:No
buy:4k quality is there in m50 2?
sell:yes
buy:It has warranty
sell:yes, 2 years walk in warranty
buy:Who is the best canon 200d or m50mark 2
sell:M50 Mark 2
buy:Which camera will be good for make YouTube videos especially it's good or not
sell:It is good, just for 4K, you can’t clog in it in 4K, you can only do talking head videos or if you’re filming, keep the focus to manual. That is all. This is the best camera for 1080p hands down.
buy:Does this camera include lens or without lens
sell:Yes it includes 15-45 mm lens
buy:Does it come along with a backpack?
sell:No, you have to purchase the backpack and the SD card separately.
buy:Lens is included or not?
sell:yash included
buy:Which is better both of canon eos 200d mark ii and canon eos m50 mark ii ?
sell:m50 mark ii
buy:It is 4k vedio recording or not ?
sell:yes
buy:Battery standing time
sell:Around 2.5 hours continuous shooting. This is fine, although I would suggest to purchase an extra battery... But 2.5 hours is enough.
buy:When it's will be available in flipkart?
sell:you need to check it every day, it's coming for a while only and getting sold out in no time.
buy:Which is best SONY alpha 6000 or m50 mark II? Which I have to buy?
sell:m50 mark ii
buy:Can I use HSS flash?
sell:yes
buy:Can we use nikkon AF-P 70-300 lence with it
sell:EF &EF-S lences compartable via mount adapter EF-EOS M
buy:Can we use extra light?
sell:yes, you can use extra light mount on camera
buy:Does is have plug to set external mic??
sell:Yes
buy:Is this a full frame or crop frame camera?
sell:It is a crop sensor camera
buy:Which one is better? Nikon Z50 or Canon M50 mark ii
sell:Canon m50 mark ii is best I am also using this canera camera it's focusing feature is fabulous.
buy:Is nikon D5600 or this. which is better?
sell:cannon is better than nikkon
buy:Can i take photos by mobile to connect Bluetooth and wifi
sell:Yes u can take photos but canon camera app is not working always canon company needs to give good service in app i get always problem in app
buy:Is canon strap provided with camera??
sell:yes
buy:4k dual pixal record
sell:Dual pixel auto mode doesn't support in 4k mode according to spec.
buy:Does it support 4k? Or 1080p video recording?
sell:Yes
buy:Wifi connectivity available
sell:no
buy:Will the video taken with the m50 camera be supported on the theater screen?
sell:Yes
buy:Is it blutooth available
sell:Yes
buy:is good This camera videography?
sell:Yes good
buy:Night photos type good and average
sell:Not that good. But still depends on your skills
buy:How many battery in box ??
sell:Only one
buy:Is slow motion available?
sell:Yes it's available
buy:Can I use Sony lens in canon m50 mark 2 ?
sell:no u can't use
buy:This include all mics
sell:No, have to buy separately... But in built mic is available in camera..
buy:Model Name
sell:Canon M50 Mark II
buy:Form Factor
sell:Mirrorless
buy:Effective Still Resolution
sell:4
buy:Special Feature
sell:Live View
buy:Optical Zoom
sell:3 x
buy:Colour
sell:Black
buy:Connector Type
sell:Wi-Fi
buy:Screen Size
sell:7.62 Centimetres
buy:Item Weight
sell:‎448 g
buy:Country of Origin
sell:Japan
buy:Includes External Memory
sell:No
buy:Includes Rechargable Battery
sell:‎Yes
buy:Battery Cell Composition
sell:‎Lithium Ion
buy:Computer Environment Required for Connecting the Camera via Wi-Fi (EOS Utility 3.x) (Interchangeable-lens Digital Cameras)
sell:You can connect to a computer via Wi-Fi to remotely operate the camera using the EOS Utility (EOS software).EOS Utility is a software for communication with your EOS DIGITAL camera. The latest version of EOS Utility can be downloaded from the Canon Web site.
buy:Lens difficult to contrast AF when recording 4K movies (EOS M50 Mark II)
sell:When recording 4K movies, using the lenses listed below, it may take long or may have difficulties to achieve focus, comparing to shooting Full HD or HD movies (as of October, 2020).
buy:Smartphone (Device) Specifications and System Requirements for a Wireless Connection with a Camera (Canon Camera Connect) (Interchangeable-lens Digital Cameras)
sell:Please refer to the information below for the smartphone (or other device) OS versions and other specifications which allow connecting your smartphone (device) to the camera wirelessly (as of October 2020).
buy:Images are blurry, not focused, or lack sharpness
sell:Is the Lens Securely Mounted
buy:Does Digital Photo Professional Express charges automatically when it is updated to Ver.1.2.0 or later? (Interchangeable-lens Digital Cameras)
sell:Digital Photo Professional Express will not be charged only with its version up.
buy:Will full function of Digital Photo Professional Express after the subscription be available in several devices? (Interchangeable-lens Digital Cameras)
sell:Full function of Digital Photo Professional Express will be available in several devices if you use them in same Apple ID.
buy:How to export edited images from Digital Photo Professional Express as JPEG (to the Camera Roll) (Interchangeable-lens Digital Cameras)
sell:The images edited in Digital Photo Professional Express can be written as JPEG, and exported to the camera roll.










