,name,line
0,G," Elon Musk, welcome to THINK TANK. We normally begin these sessions by asking you a little bit about background, where you were born, where you went to school, what you do and then we’ll just pick it up from there."
1,K," Well, I was born in South Africa, lived there until I was 17. Came to North America of my own accord, against my parent’s wishes. And was in Canada for a few years. I started school there which is where I met my wife."
2,G, What is that? I’m sort of a techie ignoramus. What does Pay Pal do?
3,K, Pay Pal is the leading internet payment mechanism. It’s probably like an American Express of the Twenty First Century.
4,G," What does it do that my American Express card doesn’t do? I mean, I can order things on the internet with a credit card, can’t I?"
5,K, Yeah you can. It’s hard to explain Pay Pal by analogy since it’s really a new sort of entity.
6,G, This was your idea.
7,K, There were two other people involved but I was responsible for many of the core idea.
8,G," So, now we’re on this most remarkable factory floor of SpaceX. I felt I’ve been around. I’ve never quite seen anything like this. What are you doing here?"
9,K," SpaceX is developing markets for taking satellites and people to orbit and beyond. So, we’ve finished development of and done a few test launches in our small rocket, which is the Falcon One, which you see part of over here."
10,G, Did you design these or are they your concept?
11,K," Yes, I’m the chief designer in the company."
12,G, -- designer and the businessman.
13,K, Yes.
14,G, A good combination.
15,K," Yeah, I think it is a good combination."
16,G, And as I understand it -- so you make your money on these by taking up other people’s satellites to --
17,K, Yes.
18,G," Satellites are used for communications, business, military, whatever?"
19,K, Yes.
20,G," Now, you want to go to Mars?"
21,K," I wouldn’t say -- I mean, I wouldn’t say it’s a personal interest of mine to go to Mars, but really my interest in going to Mars is from the standpoint of the extension of life beyond earth. To the best of my knowledge life exists only on earth. And this is the first time in the 4 billion year history of earth that it’s possible to extend life to another planet."
22,G," So, you want to go to Mars -- I mean, the way they went to Mount Everest, because it’s there."
23,K," No, no, I think in the case of the sort of flippant remark by Hillary was -- it’s sort of a noteworthy achievement to have climbed the highest mountain on earth and all that [unintelligible] in the same way people want to break records of various kinds around the world, sailing journeys and that sort of thing."
24,G," invention of fire, the wheel, that kind of thing."
25,K, That’s actually a very [unintelligible] humanity. That’s actually [unintelligible] factor (speaking over each other) Those are only important in the context of humanity.
26,G," Oh, I see, okay."
27,K," I’m talking about things that are important in the context of life itself. So, you know, there’s life extending -- life emerging from the oceans and moving up to land."
28,G, Do you believe that there was an unmoved mover? Did something otherworldly start it all?
29,K, I think the universe can be explained by the laws of physics and does not require any supreme being --
30,G, Let’s get on to some other things. Much of the space program and its origins of course was governmental.
31,K, Yes.
32,G," I mean it was military, it was NASA -- is the basic future of the space program and space exploration -- should that be done governmentally or privately or both?"
33,K," Probably both. I mean, yes, space exploration [unintelligible] it’s both a government and a private endeavor."
34,G, Could you operate without the government help?
35,K, Yes.
36,G," I mean, it’s reached a point where you can design your rockets and do things and you don’t need to --"
37,K, Correct. We started with no government help. The government is a customer but we also have main commercial customers as well.
38,G, Who’s your customer? Defense and NASA and --
39,K," Well, we have -- assuming NASA is probably our single biggest customer -- the Defense Department, particularly DARPA is a customer."
40,G," Do you find yourself at a disadvantage or advantage dealing with these great big industrial behemoths, where you’re competitors are Boeing and people like that?"
41,K," I think the advantage, because it’s very hard for those large companies to track the best engineers. They’re really not great environments to work in."
42,G, The bigger the more inefficient something is
43,K," As a company grows and you get to be able to use division of labor and specialization of labor, far too many person increases."
44,G, How fast is SpaceX growing in terms of people?
45,K, About a 100 percent a year. But that won’t continue in the future. We may have 50 percent in the future --
46,G, At what point are you worrying that you’re falling victim of this idea of being too large. Is that way off in the distance?
47,K, I think it’s pretty far off yeah. I think you know we’ll probably stabilize at maybe a thousand or two thousand. I think Boeing is like 100 thousand people.
48,G," Just to jump around a little bit, another one of your very noteworthy entrepreneurial activities is a new electric car."
49,K, Yes.
50,G, Will you tell us about that?
51,K," Sure -- and so I’m chairman and principal founder of Tesla, which -- Tesla motors, which is making a revolutionary electric sports car. It’s all electric, it has almost 250 miles range. It has acceleration which is less than four seconds to 60 miles an hour. And it’s about 100 thousand dollars, so it’s a compelling price for car of that performance."
52,G, Will the price go down as the production goes up?
53,K," Well, the sports car will probably remain at that price point. But Tesla is developing a lower cost car, which is a sedan, it’s five passenger, four door sedan, quite large and it’s intended to be something that could be a family sedan or it can replace a small -- smallish SUV. It’s going to be in the 50 thousand dollar range. We’ll be producing 10 to 20 thousand of these a year."
54,G, What is the purpose of building an electric car? Can it ever be as economically competitive as a vehicle powered by fossil fuel?
55,K," Yes, actually I think the long term electric cars will be more economically competitive than the -- than the gasoline car. Also, the price of gasoline is going to rise over time given finite supplies and rapidly increasing demand, particularly from China and India, as we’ve seen."
56,G," What is the most efficient way to create the power to charge the batteries, to charge the engine in Tesla?"
57,K," Basically it’s roughly one part emission, four parts heat of the energy in that gallon of gasoline."
58,G, Do you think we ought to be doing more to encourage the use of nuclear power in the United States. My understanding is that we have not built a new nuclear plant in about 25 years here.
59,K, Right. It’s true we’ve not built new nuclear plants in a couple decades. Although what most people don’t realize is that the existing nuclear plants have been massively upgraded. [Laughter]
60,G, About 20 percent total.
61,K," Yeah, we should build more nuclear power plants. I think that’s a better way to generate energy than certainly a coal power plant or a natural gas power plant."
62,G, You came from South Africa at age 17.
63,K, Yes.
64,G," You have been quoted as saying -- Elon you came here from South Africa at age 17, is that right."
65,K," Yes, I did."
66,G, You were an immigrant -- a legal immigrant --
67,K," No, no -- yes, a legal one. [Laughter]"
68,G, I got to think a lot of illegals add a lot of value to the United States. You have been quoted as saying that you are nauseatingly pro American.
69,K," Yes, that’s true."
70,G, What do you mean?
71,K," Well, I mean, I think the United States is the greatest country that’s ever existed on earth. And I think that it will be difficult to argue on objective grounds that it is not. I think the facts really point in that direction. It’s the greatest force for good of any country that’s ever been."
72,G, And perhaps the threat of terrorism would be much greater if it were not for the United States.
73,K," Yeah, absolutely. I think it would be a mistake to say the United States is perfect, it certainly is not. There have been many foolish things the United States has done and bad things the United States has done."
74,G," I have a reputation of interrupting my guests. But when they say exactly what I believe, I just let them talk and talk. I think you’re 100 percent right."
75,K, And -- you know I wasn’t born in America -- I got here as fast as I could.
76,G," My sense is to use that old classical economic term, that perhaps the greatest comparative advantage we have in the United States is the fact we take in lots of immigrants, legal and to some extent illegal and we have the only really good assimilation factory in the world."
77,K," Yeah. Yeah. I totally agree. And I do agree with assimilation. I mean, it doesn’t mean erasing someone’s you know -- the culture that someone came from."
78,G," Well, you know they say there’s a lot of public opinion [unintelligible] evidence to that effect that immigrants are more patriotic than Americans. Because those of us who were born here were born here and you know most Americans love their country, but they didn’t make the rational choice to say this is where I’m going to hang my hat."
79,K, Sure absolutely.
80,G, What is the X Prize?
81,K," Well, the X Prize Foundation is an organization that creates these prizes for things that -- things are important -- for which there should be an incentive to get to happen."
82,G, Who sponsors the X Prize?
83,K," Well, it varies. So in the case of the subliminal X Prize there were many sponsors. In fact I was one of the sponsors. But the main sponsor was [unintelligible] Ansari. So, it’s called Ansari X Prize. [unintelligible] Ansari, actually, so the Ansari family sponsored several X Prizes."
84,G, [unintelligible]
85,K," But there are others. For example, there’s a genomics X Prize for low cost decoding of the human genome and that’s sponsored by Craig Ventor [phonetic]."
86,G, One of our -- my occasional cohosts on this program is Francis Collins who is the Director of the Human Genome project at NIH.
87,K," Oh, yeah."
88,G, We just did two programs with him. He’s a very remarkable guy.
89,K, Up quite dramatically.
90,G, How much percentage per year -- is that the way to measure it?
91,K," Sure, well, of course SpaceX revenue have been growing about 150 to 200 percent a year. For Tesla -- well Tesla is kind of a -- Tesla will only start shipping cars next month and, so, real actually recognized revenue would only occur. So, the percentage would be ridiculously gigantic."
92,G, SpaceX is already profitable.
93,K, Yes.
94,G, Tesla obviously cannot be profitable.
95,K, It’s not profitable yet.
96,G," Now, you are not a public -- none of your ventures are public?"
97,K, None of my major ventures are public.
98,G, But they may well become --
99,K," Correct. I suspect over time all three of my most significant ventures will become public companies, SpaceX, Tesla and Solar City."
100,G, And the reason for this is to provide more capital to expand.
101,K," Yeah go public -- provides more capital to expand, it provides some measure of liquidity for investors in the company and it’s also helpful as a currency for acquiring other companies."
102,G," So, you want to go public and issue stock?"
103,K," Well, I wouldn’t say -- I said public is a -- going public is a consequence of you know a certain maturity level of the company down the road. But I wouldn’t -- I wouldn’t go public as a goal. It’s not really a goal, it’s --"
104,G, One of the reasons that entrepreneurs go public if they have ambition -- is to use the stock to buy other companies -- [speaking over each other]
105,K, Absolutely.
106,G, You were [unintelligible]
107,K, Absolutely
108,G, And that’s what you want to do?
109,K," Among other things, certainly one of the reasons."
110,G," How big would you like to grow in your mind’s eye? Very very very big or medium big, I mean, do you want to be as big as Microsoft?"
111,K, [Laughs] Do I want to be as big as Microsoft.
112,G," Well, somebody -- Gates did it, it’s not inconceivable."
113,K," Well, the size of the company market cap isn’t really a metric by which I would judge my own achievement."
114,G," Well, it’s very interesting. I have am, you know, in awe of what you guys do, not only because you create goods and services that we all need. But you know I was deeply involved in the whole cold war struggle."
115,K, Yeah I agree absolutely.
116,G, Okay -- now let me ask you this: Who are your heroes?
117,K," My heroes. Well, Winston Churchill, Thomas Edison -- I mean, I could go on with this long list, I suppose."
118,G," Any of the American techie guys, the guys who were doing the sorts of things you are doing?"
119,K," Oh, you mean [unintelligible]"
120,G," Yeah, you’re case. Go ahead counselor."
121,K," [Laughter] Well, for people that [unintelligible] contemporary -- I mean, I think Larry and Sergey at Google. I suppose they’re my heroes -- they’re also my Friends."
122,G, Did you hang out socially with these guys?
123,K, Yes.
124,G, Is there anyone in the political world that you admire now particularly
125,K, Who’s alive today?
126,G," Yeah, who’s alive today. Is there anyone you admire, is there anyone you detest?"
127,K, Who do I admire?
128,G, Yes.
129,K, [pause] You know I’m not a huge admirer of politicians in general.
130,G," It’s very interesting -- I mean, I think it’s a very healthy sign that the country’s okay and people don’t like politicians and don’t choose to vote. I mean, they say I got better things to do at the moment."
131,K," Yeah I wouldn’t say I’m a huge admirer of anyone in particular on the political stage today. I mean, historically I would say Winston Churchill -- on of the greats; you know maybe Teddy Roosevelt, Disraeli."
132,G, What about the more recent ones. Do you think Reagan did a good job?
133,K," Yeah, absolutely. I think Reagan was great. Actually I think he was -- he should be up there among one of the great -- as one of the greater [unintelligible] Presidents."
134,G, How about Bill Clinton?
135,K," Probably certainly above average as American Presidents go, not quite as good as a lot of people would make him out to be. I think if you look at the actual track record on things like Rwanda, should have taken action."
136,G," What do you think of the President incumbent, George W. Bush?"
137,K," You know, George Bush is like Reagan without the brains."
138,K, Reagan was a smart man.
139,G," It’s funny, that’s what they said about Reagan and he didn’t have any brains and he had a lot of brains."
140,K," I think the current President Bush does the right thing, in his view. But the really -- the big difference President Bush -- current Bush -- and Reagan -- is that Reagan actually had strong intellectual underpinnings for his decisive actions. He read -- he read a lot of books. He thought deeply about the subjects."
